---
title: Crisp DNA
next_section: what-is-crisp.html
---
h1. What is this?

This site is an "open-source":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source product describing how Crisp works and why. 

"Crisp":http://www.crisp.se is a consulting company based in Stockholm But we aren't a very typical consulting company. 
For example:

* None of the 30+ consultants are actually employed by {{ site.company_name }} (although we do have employed office staff).
* We have no managers, not even a CEO. Instead we rely on self-organization and transparancy. Almost everything is bottom-up.
* Crisp's main purpose is to enable consultants to be happy, and "Crisp Happiness Index":happiness-index.html is our driving metric. Strong revenue and customer satisfication is a side effect, not a goal.
* Crisp doesn't want to earn money from it's consultants. It is in practice a non-profit company (although not formally so). Consultants keep most of what they earn.
* Our partnership contract is designed to make our stock financially worthless. There is no incentive to "cash in".
* Consultants are 100% autonomous. They can do whatever they want (as long as they don't hurt the brand), and work as much or as little as they want.

We get a lot of questions about how this works in practice, especially from other consultants looking to create something similar. After many years of experimenting we've converged on a model that works well, basically the sweet spot between being an independent consultant and being an employee. So we decided to "open source":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source it.

We won't cover everything, but we'll try to cover the most important and most stable aspects of our model.

Want to start a similar org? See "How to clone the Crisp DNA":how-to-copy.html.

h2. Why open-source the Crisp DNA?

* To make the world a better place! The model has helped us be happy and make a positive impact in the world, and publishing it may help others do the same.
* Open-sourcing it is a fun social experiment, we're curious about what's going to happen :o)
* By making our model public, we're more likely to keep it up-to-date and improve it as we learn.
* Putting it on GitHub makes it easier for others to clone and evolve the model, and we can learn from that.

h1. Contents

*Driving principles:*

* "What is Crisp":what-is-crisp.html - the purpose of the company
* "How Crisp works":how-crisp-works.html - summary of our model, and some driving principles.
* "Why this works":why-this-works.html - why this model has served us so well

*Core structure and practices* (really just a consequence of the principles above)

* "Happiness index":happiness-index.html - how do we know if we are succeeding?
* "Ownership model":ownership-model.html - how do people become owners, and what ownership actually means?
* "Economic model":economic-model.html - how does money flow through the system?
* "How we make decisions":decisions.html - how do decisions get made when there is no manager?
* "Recruiting":recruiting.html - how do new people get in?
* "Dashboard" - how do we see the big picture?
* "Communication" - how do we collaborate, sync, and improve?
* "Bun protocol":bun-protocol.html - how do we handle customer enquiries and route to the right consultant?
* "Office team" - how do we handle admin and day-to-day operations?
* "Board of directors":board.html - Swedish law requires that we have a BoD. So how does the BoD at Crisp work?
* "Our business" - what type of work we do
* "Conflict handling" - 

*Supporting practices*
Interesting stuff, but not core. Some of these haven't been written up. "Ping us":https://github.com/crispab/crisp-dna/issues if something feels extra interesting!


* "Industries that we avoid" - 
* "Rocket Days" - how we learn from each other
* "Crisp unconference":unconference.html - how our bi-annual unconference works
* "Hack summit":hack-summit.html - how we geek out together and learn from each other
* "Email conventions" - how we get transparancy without information overflow
* "Communication tools" - other stuff that we use: wiki, slack, google docs, trello, etc.
* "Courses and event production" - how do courses and events get produced?
* "Crisplets" - how do bottom-up initiatives get funded?
* "Sales" - how do we actually sell consultants?
* "Invoicing" - how do we know which invoices to send?
* "Shared assets" - what are our shared assets and how do we manage them?
* "Contracts":contracts.html - our internal contracts for Crisp membership, ownership, etc.
* "Brand building" - how do we build the brand, both Crisp and personal brands?

*Meta*

* "How to clone the Crisp DNA":how-to-copy.html




